let's bring in Hassan barari he's a
professor of international Affairs at
Qatar University so Hassan it feels like
we've seen all of this before right a
ceasefire proposal linkoln comes to the
region Israel and Hamas trade blame you
could tell me this time is different or
you could tell me it's all the same
political theater to use the word that
Zay used earlier and I would believe you
either way what do you think I agree
with you that we've seen this movie
before quite often and then it never
yielded to the uh desired outcome but
this time I think it's a little bit
different uh simply because the regional
Dynamics has changed uh with
assassination
of Hamas leaders and the Iranian in
intention to retaliate uh so here here's
the the the point that President Biden
uh wants to avoid a scenario where the
region degenerated into a regional War
where the where the United States would
be involved so you're saying this time
the cost of not agreeing to a ceasefire
plan is a lot
higher it's it's assumed so so the
Americans assume that short of having
ceasefire right now the the Iranian
might retaliate and in this way
Netanyahu would retaliate again and this
is this cycle would complicate the
American situation in the region okay
the cost of failure is higher so the
chances of success awkwardly are
actually high I would say the pressure
would be more Ino I mean we cannot
really guarantee the well I want to talk
about this pressure right because I
think there's consensus that the US is
really the key country that can put
pressure or choose not to put pressure
on Israel the but we know the US is not
going to stop arms deliveries we know
they're not going to suspend financial
aid and we know they're going to protect
Israel from potential Regional attacks
So within those limits which are pretty
clear now what really is the pressure
that the US could put on Israel as you
said it's teethless pressure you know
because if is not connected to threat or
a price tag um it seems to be difficult
for Netanyahu to cave in unless there is
something internal in in Israel that
would uh um force him to do so but
within those parameters is there
something that can Biden say I know I
want to keep delivering weapons I know I
want to keep up the financial aid and
I've already sent my carry a strike
group to the region to protect Israel
all of that is a given but within that I
still want to put pressure on Israel
just a hypothetical if Biden is in that
mindset what can he do I think n would
have little room to maneuver and and
this would create different Dynamic
within Israel Society within the Israeli
politics that an would be you know in
really um hard hard situation that he
will cave in and we know that netan
caves in uh whenever there's real
pressure we've seen him in 19 uh 1997
1998 with why uh with Y River agreement
and even this led to the dissolve of his
his government uh but we know n is not
the one who would stand up to the
pressure if it's connected with price
tech but until this moment Netanyahu
relies in his allies in the United
States in the Congress for instance the
Republican party and he realized in them
to offset the the pressure so it's a
game H whenever Netanyahu feels that he
going to lose in this game he he caves
in I keep hearing Biden wants a
ceasefire agreement for his legacy for
the way he'll be remembered first of all
do you agree with that premise to some
extent yeah well if that's the case I
mean the clock's ticking for Biden right
he doesn't have that long left in office
I think he could have done this before H
in in um in November last year there was
a chance for perpetuating the the
ceasefire but he um chose not to
interfere and he keps protecting Israel
and giving Israel the the space to
eliminate Hamas when Israel failed to do
so so I think he's lame duck right now
he can't really uh bang on a legacy all
he needs probably is to help Harris win
election so it's not about um Legacy and
and I think Biden understand very well
that the the the peace talks or the
ceasefire proposal would be limit to the
first phase uh so if he can is that is
that what you believe I think they are
not related and that's why Hamas is
sorry what's not related the the the
proposal is three phases yes you know so
phase one Perman phase one is temporary
cease
fire for relas yeah in exchange for
release of the the hostages and this
would be an achievement for Biden so
after that it's going to be difficult a
time would not really help uh help Biden
and B netan is not going to change
course simply because he knows that you
know he in this case he would be
responding positively to the demand of
the public that okay you know I got your
boys back so what else you want me let
me finish the job Hassan barari uh thank
you very much for your thoughts thank
you for joining us today thank you
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer